today's video involves high-tech and
low-tech content it involves our battle
we've been waging against raccoons it
starts with this guy lovely outdoor
stray cat who adopted us a couple years
ago when we built this deck and put a
door about ten feet away from this
refrigerator now he's smart enough to
know there's food in this refrigerator
so he has now become an indoor/outdoor
cat that's become dependent on us for
food so the problem is when we go on
vacation we don't have a way of putting
food now it's not for you it's for him
ah when we put food out there's a fleet
of bottomless raccoons that come and eat
all the food at night before this guy
gets to have any so the low-tech are you
trying to lure him outside here he comes
a little tight part of the solution is
this it's a platform that is tall enough
to be out of reach of raccoons and short
enough that cats can leap up there now
it's a little bit rickety but hungry
enough cats they don't seem to care it's
about 15 dollars worth hello up there
you see not as worth of parts cheap one
and a quarter inch inside diameter PVC
tubing a little bit of duct tape makes
for a nice snug fit in the standard size
blow up holes and then a little adapter
piece of wood some duct tape you're good
to go now the high-tech part of this
involves not surprisingly wireless
cloud-based infrared enabled cats are
pretty fearless when it comes to Heights
even on a rickety platform so that
doesn't really bother much the talk
would have an issue with that but it's
Nucky's food the net cam I'm using is
called Fleur FX they just started
shipping last
sweet it's very similar to the more
established Dropcam what distinguishes
this camera is a software trick they
call a Rapid Recap they license it from
a company called brief cam so it's a
really clever trick that allows you to
condense up to eight hours of video down
to just a minute or two a video that you
can quickly review it uses those
floating timestamps to follow each
person around so the same person shows
up in multiple places but a timestamp
allows you to see which activity is of
interest then you can use that to go
back to the original video clips which
are stored up in the cloud as well and
see that in more detail it's really
clever and a lot of fun check out that
spider in the lower left head infrared
is really really effective so you can
see the cat wandering around at various
times throughout the night except when
the raccoons show up about 4:55 a.m.
there's a husband-and-wife racoon team
there and the husband is just tall
enough that he wreaks havoc on the
original version of this platform now
I've switched to the the detailed
version of the original video clip and
you can see it's interesting that when
that light comes on the motion detection
enabled white the the raccoons don't
even flinch and I thought that would
scare them away but they don't care
so this raccoons tall enough that he can
just reach up to the food in his paw his
Papa food out but he's more ambitious he
wants more so he's trying to get that
right hind leg up on the platform so
that he can go up and own the food and
after about an hour of trying he
actually does that and he gets up there
and he gobbles up all the food so we had
to do a change so the next night I
raised the platform up four inches it's
a total height of 25 inches and I put
the food bin up on like a seven inch
plastic bucket so now he's totally
defeated and he runs home and chained
one of their kaki be ticked
birds especially Magpies
also love caffeine so we kind of like
that on this solution we have a solar
sail which is put out for shade it's
just a special tarp that's got tension
on the four corners that hopes it slough
off wind rain and a little bit of snow
but it's close enough to the top of this
bird feeder Ridge sorry cat feeder that
the birds don't feel comfortable landing
her so and so I've gotten that up high
enough we haven't had any troubles with
birds conclusions
raccoons languished at least until they
bring their engineers and then top of my
tower on the floor FX camera there are
better reviews out there I'll put some
links to those in the blog posts but
basic inclusions are that Rapid Recap
software trick it's really compelling
it's a clever way to review a lot of
videos quickly second big advantage is
unlike almost all the other saw
cloud-based camera platforms out there
they offer a zero fee service or they'll
store up to two days video clips for
free unfortunately that only gets you
three of those fun Rapid Recap videos
per month so you probably don't like you
probably want to spring before the next
service plan which is ten dollars a
month
similar to all the other companies and
that'll get you seven days of video clip
storage and unlimited rapid recaps one
of the disadvantages with the way the
software works now is the rapid recaps
you have to manually specify so you pick
which eight-hour period you want push a
button then it submits it off to a
machine and a minute or two later comes
back with the video it's not done
automatically second disadvantage is I
think a temporary one it doesn't
currently work with the latest Android
and
I point oh yeah we're fine Android for
devices but and on the Apple iOS
platforms I'm sure they'll get that
ironed out so um for now it's really
good really good setup I imagine other
companies will follow suit with that
software trick because it's so
compelling but until they do these guys
have a corner on the market highly
recommended that's it for now so next
time